Application Instructions

Overview
This application is a text-to-speech tool that generates audio files based on input text. It supports both WAV and MP3 file formats and allows customization through various command-line arguments.



Usage
ttsforge --gender <Male|Female> --outfile  (--string  | --infile ) [--parse  ...]



Required Arguments:

--gender
Specifies the voice gender.
Options: Male or Female

--outfile
Specifies the output file name, including the desired extension (.wav or .mp3).
Example: output.wav or output.mp3



Input Source (One of the following):
--string 
Directly pass the text to convert to speech.
--infile 
Specifies a file containing the text to convert.



Optional Arguments:

--parse 
Specifies one or more parse files to modify the input text before processing.
Parse files contain rules for substitutions in the format:
word1-->replacement1
word2-->replacement2
Each line defines a substitution rule where word1 is replaced by replacement1.
To avoid changes to subwords and partial matches, spaces and punctuation are supported.
For example:
" TTS --> text to speech "
" world --> earth "
Note: The spaces are retained for matches, and the --> is only used to split the parts.



Default File Type
If no valid extension is provided in --outfile, the application defaults to .wav format.

Examples
Example 1: Basic Usage
Convert a simple string to a WAV file:
ttsforge --gender Female --outfile output.wav --string "Hello world!"

Example 2: Using an Input File
Convert text from a file to an MP3 file:
ttsforge --gender Male --outfile output.mp3 --infile input.txt

Example 3: Using Parse Rules
Apply substitutions before generating speech:

Create a parse file, rules.txt:
hello-->hi
world-->earth
" space hello --> space hi "
" earth --> earth planet "

Run the application:
--gender Female --outfile output.wav --string "Hello world!" --parse rules.txt
Output will replace "hello" with "hi" and "world" with "earth". Words with spaces before or after, like " space hello " will only match exact matches.


Notes:

Ensure that the lame MP3 encoder is installed and accessible if using the MP3 format. It is provided with in this release. Preferably, keep it in the same directory as the ttforge file.

Temporary files are created in the system's temporary directory when converting to MP3.

Input text will preserve its formatting, but quotes (") will be replaced with single quotes (') in the output.

If a parse file includes invalid rules (e.g., missing -->), they will be ignored.

Troubleshooting

Error: Input file not found
Ensure the file path specified in --infile exists.

Error: LAME encoder not found
Install the LAME MP3 encoder or ensure it is in your system's PATH.

Unexpected Output
Check the contents of your parse file for unintended rules.